for better or for worse I do lapse into
using some of the same slogans again and
again on this channel because we talked
about some of the same issues of
effective organism effective activism
community organization trying to make a
meaningful movement out of what's
currently a meaningless morass of
mutually hateful individuals in the
internet tearing each other apart
the first baby steps towards having a
real vegan movement maybe somewhere in
the world a real vegan community and I
still got love for all y'all one of
those slogans you've heard me say a
bunch of times is about meeting people
with an open heart and an open mind and
you've heard me talk a lot about
tolerance tolerance as a fundamental
political virtue that if you're gonna be
involved in politics of any kind you
have to have tolerance not for the
people you agree with but for the people
you disagree with that you need to learn
to treat other people with some kind of
dignity even when you very fundamentally
disagree with them even when they really
hurt your feelings and you know some of
you people call me hypocrite that's cool
and some of you people question a little
bit more sincerely and deeply why is it
about let's gel as that is my name it's
it's not it's really not well why is it
that if you practice this method of
tolerance of many people with noble
heart and open mind why is it that you
have so much conflict in your life why
is there so much conflict on this
YouTube channel I think some of you guys
are looking at this 180 degrees wrong
meeting people with an open heart and an
open mind is not a formula for conflict
avoidance it's actually a formula for
embracing risk inviting conflict into
your life and learning from the
conflicts and contrasts that come into
your life what the vast majority of
middle-aged people do instead is live
alone or live in the same circle of
friends they had since high school maybe
the same circle friends they had since
college they live in an enclosed circle
of mutually admiring people
where they're not exposed to certain
types of criticism where they're not
exposed to unexpected and jarring
challenges where they're not really
exposed to things that are ideologically
unknown and of course they don't receive
the kind of hatred I receive every day
on the internet meeting people with an
open heart and open mind does not mean
you love everybody
it means you give people a chance a
chance to do what a chance to cooperate
because ultimately the kind of
constituency I'm trying to build here is
about here's that catchphrase saving the
planet I've asked you guys again and
again to question in your own lives how
your life would be different if you
really were sincerely motivated by
trying to save the planet if that really
was what you were trying to pursue would
you be doing what you're doing today in
terms of ecological activism advocacy
for veganism what you're doing on the
internet off the internet in real life
what you read what you write what you do
with your spare time what you do in your
professional life in your family life
does it really square with that mission
statement of saving the planet and I can
tell you guys that what I do in reaching
out to and trying to collaborate with my
fellow vegans the internet absolutely is
part of that mission and I'll give you
some examples I mean there are so many
positive examples I never thought I
would be friends with Aaron Janis
now we're real friends I never thought
I'd be friends with vegan gains and just
lately you know we've really been
talking we've been becoming friends
again or even becoming friends for the
first time whatever you want to say
obviously you guys heard me say just so
I never thought I'd be friends someone
like the vegan cheetah the number of
bodybuilders who are now my friends
blows my mind because the life I lived
before I became vegan had nothing to do
with bodybuilding it's just surprising
to me I never would have thought I'd
know so many guys who are bodybuilders
you know Jason Posey know the light
twins the list goes on and on these
people have become my friends which is
wonderful there are lots of positive
examples you know when just now me and
kerima carpet started Turkey talking and
I was saying to Carrie look you know
Carrie you and I we should have a Skype
conversation where we resolve to not
even mention durianrider let's just have
a positive
it's great this tunt tons of positive
results have come out of it but look
tolerance doesn't mean it's doesn't even
mean acceptance as I've said on here
before I remember there was a pair of of
youtubers on vegans here on YouTube a
couple you know so male and female
couple and you know when I first got to
know them I was aware they were
right-wing they were somewhere in the
Conservative Party or Republican Party
or everyone say uh but I didn't know how
far right-wing and then with time the
girlfriend especially attitude she
started making videos that were racist
and that we're getting into neo-nazi
type extremism I didn't see anything for
that I thought I would really call
neo-nazi but way out at that end and
those are people were had made some
effort to communicate with them to have
positive relations with them to see if
we could cooperate collaborate you know
be part of this so-called movement for
veganism because they're both ethical
vegans they want to save the planet and
you know what after a certain point you
say I'm not gonna make this effort at
you and still I'm still tolerant I never
sent them hate mail I never sent them a
denunciation I've never come on YouTube
I'm even though I'm not naming them I'm
not you know I'm not gonna I'm not gonna
try to ruin their lives I'm not gonna do
any of the things that durianrider did
to me I'm not gonna do any things that
Swayze did to me unnatural vegan did to
me unnatural vegan dug around to try to
find some comments somewhere on Facebook
that I made in the past five years that
make me sound like an [ __ ] well clap
clap you know great you think that's not
ad hominem you think that's a good
argument come on uh
I didn't do anything like that I still
do tolerate them but no I'm no longer
trying to communicate with those people
another example that's both positive and
negative you know pal simian for more
than a year I think I think it's more
than a year in my memory I had really
paused the communication with that guy I
never had any illusions about pal simian
I know you know I never thought we had a
lot in common
no politically or intellectually or
otherwise obviously on his channel he's
always been a bit of a goofball which is
fine not hating on him that's
it's been what he does on the internet
that's cool uh it's not really cool I
just mean it's okay uh but you know for
more than a year I sent him messages you
know commenting on his videos sometimes
positively but sometimes negatively and
I remember once he sent me back a really
appreciative comment after I sent him
some criticism that was it was helpful
criticism but I was saying look you may
not realize what you're saying in this
video but here's the way in which this
is gonna get you in trouble it's wrong
I remember him writing back to me and
saying man this is gold you know thank
you for writing this thank you for
taking time to write this to me and he
said he really needed this you know
feedback or whatever so I in that sense
I had a positive relationship with a guy
for more than a year as I recall and
then at one point he started sending me
really insulting hate mail but what out
of the blue and I didn't know what was
up I didn't know what the reasons were
and I just wrote to him saying like okay
look you know I'm sorry you feel this
way but obviously you know we're gonna
stop communicating with each other and
my emphasis because what he said to me
was so vitriolic it was you know they
were fighting words I said look I hope
if we bump into each other an animal
rights conference some time or you know
vegan activist conference I hope this
isn't gonna be a fist fight and I hope
you know if there's a conflict which I'm
not gonna start it I'm not gonna
escalate it you know I didn't I don't
want any problem with you but it's too
bad we can't talk or we can't cooperate
so this is it you know and that was the
end of that conversation within 24 hours
of him sending me that this is kind of
hateful comments uh he was committed to
an insane asylum many of you know that
story it was on his channel he talked
about it openly other people on their
channels talked but openly so obviously
I don't bear him any ill-will I didn't
even at the time before I knew that but
then you find out whoa okay this guy has
a bunch of psychological problems that I
didn't know about he never reached out
to me to apologize he's you know even
recently he sent me a little bit of hate
mail recently and I said to him look you
really want to do this you know
uh what what are the criteria when do
you give up on people whether it's the
right wing people or Palestinian the
question just is can I cooperate with
you
and if the answer is no it doesn't mean
you're a bad person doesn't mean I'm a
bad person either
it reflects things about you reflects
things about me but all I'm looking for
is can I cooperate with you I had that
conversation uh it's a podcast on
patreon if you want the whole thing I
put up a few minutes of it with Amy
the vegan transition is Amy a good
person I don't know I I don't know where
that well I said to her the other day
look you know I still want to cooperate
with you even if you you know vote for
Donald Trump even if you vote for
because I pointed out to her we never
talked about politics that way you know
like in theory she could be right-wing I
doubt it oh I said look for me this is
not about your private life it's not
about your private beliefs it's not
about you know your political values may
be different from mine there may be all
kinds of things that surprised me about
you I don't know the basic question just
is can I cooperate with you and if I can
that's something so precious and so
meaningful and so important to me yeah
you know what I'm willing to tolerate
that there's a whole lot wrong with you
or there's a whole lot that I disagree
with you about and again I see that in a
guy like vegan gains - yeah I mean if I
made a list of things I disagree with
vegan gains about it's a long list and
way back in the day I told them before
his channel was ever popular
I said to him look man I I don't approve
of you whipping out a knife on camera I
there's just no way I can countenance
that there's no way I can let morally
ethically what-have-you I said to my
know what it's like to have a knife
pulled out of me in real life I don't
know what if you do you know and in
terms of what Venus was about and what
YouTube's about and everything else you
know this is just to me this is over the
line so he knows I feel that way but
apparently you know what's wonderful
he's been communicating with what
apparently we can cooperate
that's something so precious and so
important and so integral to this
question of saving the planet that we
pretend we care about yeah I don't I
don't overlook what vegan gains does
that offends me or that I disagree with
I don't overlook it I don't ignore it I
tolerate it and he knows that I disagree
and you can recognize that disagreement
we can keep moving and I hope we can
cooperate I mean we're both Canadian
citizens it's really likely we'll see
each other
animal rights conference or an ecology
conference or some vegan events or even
you know that all organized an event and
I'll invite him to it
totally I do that with vegan gains even
though he knows what I disagree with no
cuz that that's tolerance that's
cooperation that's collaborate and again
for limits if someone's actually a
neo-nazi they're over the limits if
someone's actually a communist you know
for me that's over the limit and you
know with you with the anarchist
extremists you got to look at it on a
case-by-case basis if someone's an
anarchist and they're pro violence mmm I
don't I don't really want to make that
compromise so you know a lot of you guys
were surprised about what happened with
me and unnatural vegan but I wasn't you
don't know her the way I do and a lot of
you ignored the order of events
she was misleading in her video on it
which is fine misleading is not the same
thing as a lie she names my 15 minute
video that has you know civil war in the
title but then she ignores the entire
content of that video because that video
was really reasonable and she wanted to
make me sound unreasonable and you know
she's playing these games in the emails
to me she was doing even more saying she
was gonna dig up comments like by me and
about me from Buddhist discussion forums
where I'm being an [ __ ] or whatever
and I mean you know I've been through
real things in my life uh what I said
back to and that was look do you know
what it's like to dedicate more than ten
years of your life to becoming a
specialist in the field having real
expertise in a field and I've got all
kinds of links in the internet
reflecting that you know I've given a
lecture at Oxford University England at
the invitation of a professor emeritus
everyone in the audience of almost
everyone my girlfriend was an exception
almost everyone in the audience was a
professor themselves for that lecture
was a really elite lecture given a
lecture at so as University of London
specialized you know Department for
Asian Studies
I've given lectures in Taiwan and in
Cambodia and if you just look around the
internet if you just google like there's
one website called poly basa that gives
a list of links for you know what's
currently useful for that area of
studies tera vaada buddhist studies
paulista
and my name is on a shockingly large
percentage of those links I didn't make
that website I'm not friends with the
guy who did I don't know but I know why
you know in that field it's true my
contribution in a short period of time
with a lot of disadvantages
I made a big contribution I feel and
some people love me for it and some
people hate me for it but you know
someone like Swayze someone like a
natural vegan she can't relate to that
at all I've got to ask her you know do
you know what that's like in any field
of study whether philosophy science any
field and then you walk into the room
whether it's a room in real life of
people face-to-face or on Facebook and
people are saying things that are
egregiously factually wrong and
offensive and hurtful to you personally
about your area of expertise because
with Buddhism people feel entitled and
they do that all the time
Buddhism is the worst like with the
Islam people people are a little bit
scared to voice their opinion about
Islam like with a lot of things people
will kind of back off no no no Buddhism
it doesn't matter
they had one conversation with some guy
who calls himself a Dharma master if
they feel like an expert they saw a
couple of kung-fu movies they read a
book on an airplane that they bought in
the you know airplane lounge and they
feel like an expert on Buddhism and
they're gonna tell you and you know
people on a skeptic forum on Facebook
they read a Wikipedia article about how
scientific the benefits of meditation
are they've really haven't looked into
it and they're gonna tell you they feel
like they're the expert they're gonna
tell you it's like well you know what
I'm the only guy here who reads pally
who reads danger could is pally reading
pally is like reading Latin or reading
Greek it's just an ancient dead language
id2 the study I'm the only guys done
this research and yeah you know what I
do get to make fun of you I do get to
make some sarcastic remarks in these
forums because I've been through it and
you know that's that's what I did with
tell you is my life and I'm I'm not real
apologetic about that the only other
thing in my life that I'd really
parallel that to and you know that often
is a decisive influence is my engagement
with indigenous peoples all over but
including within Canada the Cree in a
jib way but it's really indigenous
minority issues anti-colonialism
anti-genocide
on a global
like there was one guy I knew who was a
he was an aspiring scholar of Cambodia
so he was still getting I forget he was
getting a master's degree at that time
forget what stage it was at but he was a
guy I knew in Cambodia and I put a lot
of effort into getting to know him and
trying to cooperate with him trying to
collaborate with him even this is before
veganism was my main thing but there was
a humanitarian element to that I'd done
volunteer work he'd done volunteer work
you know so there were there were
humanitarian and political elements to
it not just academic or scholarly Ouma
and you know one day so you know
obviously this is mostly about Cambodia
and Thailand most stuff we talked about
that that part of the world
Laos whatever and one day he just made
this series of statements that were Pro
genocide Pro colonialism and basically
racist against the Aboriginal people of
Australia from my perspective they were
I knew a lot of people from Australia
believe that a lot of people would
regard what he had to say as moderate
left-wing people and right-wing people
and centered like those those views are
common in Australia but the minute he
said that stuff to me from my
perspective he was open I didn't get
angry I didn't get in his face but from
my perspective he probably still doesn't
know that from my perspective at that
moment the friendship was over and I
would never cooperate with him and I
could never collaborate with him and
that was it you meet people with an open
heart and an open mind and you give them
a chance
I did that with Brett Rawlings I did
that again and again with Joe best I
wrote Joe best factual emails I give
people a chance even though Brett
Rowling's had insulted and reviled me
and denigrating me in the internet so
many times when I was in Chiangmai I
said hey man do you want to meet you
want to patch it up you know you want to
put this on a positive basis he said no
that's cool keep it moving
I give people a chance to do the
positive thing to make a positive
relationship out of a negative one to
set a basis for some kind of cooperation
even when we've got nothing in common
even if I think they're an idiot
frankly even if I think they're stupid I
give people that chance and I see if
something positive and come from it but
when you go around with an open heart
and an open mind
you get your heart broken again and
again and again until there is nothing
left to break and that's the strength I
have in this world okay it's not a
purely philosophical strength it's not a
theoretical or abstract idea okay when I
was saying the durianrider when he was
getting in my face that I don't care if
I live or die that he can kill me but he
can't harm me that he can beat me up but
that I'm not gonna feel bad about it and
a lot of you guys watching this this for
some of you will have no idea what I'm
talking but for some of you this will be
a memory from like twenty years ago you
hadn't thought about and for some of you
you know you won't relate to it or
whatever
so for some of you this is a memory from
last weekend okay when you go through a
fist fight doesn't matter if you win
okay there's a lot of physical pain for
days afterwards
not just your knuckles hurt you know you
you put your tongue on the roof of your
mouth and there's pain your teeth all
feel like they're in the wrong place for
days
your face is swollen up in a strange way
when you put your face down on the
pillow it hurts so you can't sleep for
days all right that's what a real fist
[ __ ] is like okay I I'm not soft this is
the most ridiculous thing in those
videos I had to say before I'm not a
tough guy I just happen to be tougher
than these guys if you guys actually
watch through the video but what went
down between me and Brett Rawlings or
between me and Joe best the other sad
thing is I keep saying to you I'm not a
nice guy
but the reality is I am nicer than these
guys I really have made the effort to
reach out to people positively and
collaborate with them positively again
and again and again and in so many cases
like I mentioned before I mentioned a
whole bunch of names including be in so
many cases it has paid off I have
wonderful positive collaborative
relationships with so many people and I
do value that but dude sometimes it just
ain't gonna work
no matter how how much you try Joe best
is just never gonna catch on he's never
gonna get it Brett Rawlings is never
gonna catch on he's never gonna get it
and that's okay and I've got to tell you
the thing with me and and a natural
vegan it goes back further than you guys
know and the actual sequence events
where that isn't quite what you guys see
there's no point getting into detail
but yeah basically you know what you try
and at some point you gotta stop trying
and just keep it moving
at the time when durianrider was
freaking out and imagining in his mind
that I was plotting to destroy him in
Chiangmai I was not thinking about
during Ryder at all at the time when
Durham writers started defaming me
making threats of violence against me
etc at the time when that started I had
just gone to the zoo I was taking
footage of the zoo and I was gonna make
a video talking about vegan ethics and
zoos those issues but I was not thinking
about denouncing or criticizing during
Ryder rights at all it was not on my
mind and you know one of the things I
saw at that zoo because I wanted to see
what the conditions of animals were what
the treatment was they had a show they
put on on stage and at one point during
this show the magician if you like the
the emcee the leader of the show he
pulled down a poster and the poster said
in both Thai and English and I could
read the Thai it's a simple enough
phrase and tie it said save the planet
and it was at that moment sitting in
that zoo you know recording that on tape
for a video thinking about what its
gonna put in the video that I really
started thinking in contrast to all the
nonsense that was going on in Chiang Mai
or all the nonsense that's happening on
YouTube how would we be acting different
how would we be behaving differently if
we were really trying to save the planet
and I still think that way and when I
reach out to and try to pawsley
cooperate with someone who is as
profoundly alien from me as vegan gains
or pal simian or a natural vegan that is
what's going on in my heart in my mind
and you know a lot of you guys get your
hearts broken out here and a lot of you
are not cut out for this game really a
lot of you a lot of you have talked to
me privately I know a lot of you a lot
of people on YouTube have suffered
horribly like emotional breakdowns in
response to I really
several you know some of you know
privately you are obviously I'm not
gonna name names okay I'm not like that
because I'm past that when I was saying
to durianrider that you know he can't
hurt me
that was really sincere and you know
when you can't be hurt that's exactly
when you're at the point of detachment
and self-discipline when you can be
helping others